♪ Ey ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ I just been ridin' ♪
Zoey: After all the turmoil
and unrest
over the last few months,
I was really appreciating
getting back
to some semblance
of a normal life.
♪ Got a new lawyer,
he need a retainer ♪
♪ I told him I'll make
the deposit ♪
♪ Cheesin' all up
in the cam and it's... ♪
And I even started
to rediscover
my old passion for designing,
thanks to all
the inspiration around me
in the small amount of downtime
I had at my new internship
with superstar
streetwear designer Esme Sharp.
♪ Lifestyle changed up
and I'm going up ♪
What's the "Z" for?
♪ But got the same ones
around me ♪
Oh, it's for Zoey.
♪ I got new pains,
but I know I'm made for it ♪
My name.
♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah ♪
Oh. Nice.
♪ Not in my nature
to save it for later ♪
♪ I'ma take her sailing
in south of France ♪
♪ Take a trip out to Paris,
I'm eating pasta in Naples ♪
♪ I'm on the beach in Barbados ♪
Here are your
six packets of sweetener,
two stir sticks,
a package of madeleines,
and one
strawberry cake pop,
which goes
right into the garbage
to not, uh,
waste those extra calories.
You see this guy?
Hmm?
He's blowing up
off the look we created
almost two
freakin' years ago.
Yeah,
I remember the line.
You had a ‐‐
a pop‐up fashion show
on some helipad
of a building downtown.
Esme: Yeah.
I stood outside
for two hours
and was denied entrance because
I had a nail file in my pocket.
Well, now, the fashion blogs
are celebrating
this White dude
like he came up with it.
Mm.
It's such nonsense.
[ Sighs ]
Yeah.
But it's nothing new,
right?
We innovate, and the world
continues to appropriate.
It's too bad there's not
some sort of reparations
for stuff like this,
because if people wanted
to "keep it so real,"
then they'd compensate
Black folks for years
and years
of stealing our ideas.
But, then, again,
h‐how do you assign
monetary value to an idea
that's not technically
intellectual property?
I really don't know.
Zoey, right?
Oh, my God,
we're on a first‐name basis.
Have a seat.
♪ I'm gone ♪
Tell me a little bit
about yourself.
Where you're from,
what you're doing here.
Wow.
♪ But got the same ones
'round me ♪
After just a few weeks
of working in Esme's office,
I was finding my voice,
and my creative light
was shining brighter than ever.
Oh. [ Laughs ] Look, my boss.
♪
Oh. Look, my words.
Unfortunately,
with my light growing brighter,
there seemed to be a tendency
for some to want
to steal that shine.
♪
♪ Watch out, world,
I'm grown now ♪
♪ I'm grown ♪
♪ Learn something new
every day ♪
♪ I don't know,
so I'mma feel my way ♪
♪ Got the weight of the world
on me ♪
♪ But no regrets,
this is what I say ♪
♪ Watch out, world,
I'm grown now ♪
♪ I'm grown ♪
♪ You can tell me ♪
♪ My heart beating so loud ♪
'♪ Mama, look, I'm grown now ♪
♪ I'm grown ♪
I understand
what you're saying.
I just don't see
what the problem is.
Well, the problem is that
Esme repurposed my words
as her own
in this article.
Are you sure
they were exact?
Maybe she just took
the essence of what you said
and remixed it.
Err, no, because a‐a "remix"
implies some sort of elevated,
hip‐hop style change
that may or may not feature
DJ Khaled ‐‐
which this is not.
Okay, okay, okay, let me see it.
Let me take a look at it.
I know a Zoey Johnson quote
when I see one.
Yep.
Alright.
"Appropriate" ‐‐ nice.
"Compensate" ‐‐ very good.
Mm‐hmm.
"Reparations."
Wait a minute.
This brilliant quote
is all Aaron Jackson.
You stole this from me.
Wha‐‐
These are my ideas.
I told you this the other night
over chimichangas.
Wha‐‐
You don't remember?
You said that?
Yes.
Over chimichangas?
Yeah, he said it
over chimichangas.
Well, that's beside the point,
then.
That means that
Esme stole from us, babe.
Okay, well, look,
maybe she just
did to you
what you just did to me.
Mm.
You listened.
You internalized
my already brilliant idea.
Then, against all odds,
you elevated it,
making it
even more brilliant.
Mm‐hmm.
The point is,
it doesn't matter who said what
as long as
the message got out, right?
Right. Right.
You're right.
And neither of us
could have gotten
those thoughts published, so ‐‐
Speak for yourself.
I'm, uh ‐‐
I'm in academia, so...
Barely.
Can you not ruin this moment?
Alright, I'm just gonna do it.
I'm gonna go with it here.
Be honest.
Does it make me look like
Will Smith in "Hitch"?
Serious question ‐‐
do you want to look like
Will Smith in "Hitch"?
Today?
Mm‐hmm.
Yes, absolutely.
Remember I told you mid‐semester
that me and the other TA
were gonna be
swapping duties?
Yeah.
Today is that day.
Yeah?
Yes. He's gonna be
grading papers. I'm gonna
be leading lectures.
That's today.
Yes.
Oh, my God,
that's so cool!
Yeah, it is,
but I feel like
I have this huge reputation
to live up to.
Mm‐hmm.
Right? Because last year,
I shut school graduation down.
That's what I did.
Also got the school to divest
from private prisons.
That was you.
Also single‐handedly created
Black Minds Matter,
Cinema Paranegro,
Cornbread Thursdays.
They're my greatest hits here.
You know what I mean?
I know
all of his greatest hits
because he never fails
to run them down every day.
I just want to make sure that
when I walk into that classroom
for the first time
looking at all their faces,
that I represent ‐‐ that I ‐‐
that I fulfill their ‐‐
their expectations;
their hopes; their dreams.
Mm.
Like Will fulfilled mine
when he delighted me
while also teaching me
how to politely hit on women
in "Hitch."
It's a great movie.
Okay.
Well, babe, calm down,
'cause you're gonna be great.
And you were born to do this,
Alex Hitchens.
What did
you just call me?
Alex Hitchens.
Thank you for saying that.
You know what that means to me.
Yeah.
I like that.
You're my Black
Eva Mendes.
Am I?
And I love you.
I love you, too.
Rrgh!
♪
Mm.
I gotta say,
that community service
has taken your cleaning skills
to the next level.
And I gotta say, the bums that
live in the public bathrooms
we have to clean each week
have nothing on you ladies.
Filthy slobs,
each and every one of you.
Yeah, you know,
I'd really love to help,
but I gotta
go to therapy.
M‐Maybe talk about why
you and your roommates
can't clean up
after yourselves.
Oh, I'd make up any nonsense in
that dumbass hour
as long as it gets me
out of running track
and keeping
my scholarship.
It's not
made‐up nonsense.
You have
a real problem.
♪
Hey.
Here's your lunch.
[ Dramatic music plays ]
♪
Well, that's dope.
Can you fix the collar on it
just a little bit?
Yeah, perfect.
♪
Or dopely familiar.
It's brilliant,
right?
Yeah, it is.
[ Chuckles ]
Especially that "Z."
I know.
Inspired.
Mm.
Iconic, even.
Esme says
it stands for "Gen Z."
Interesting.
♪
Weird.
'Cause in my identical,
equally brilliant sketch
that Esme saw and commented on,
the "Z" stood for "Zoey."
My name.
Okay, so,
they're for sure similar,
but it's not like
I'm the first person
to ever design
a cropped letterman jacket ‐‐
in green and purple
with a satin lining
and a yellow "Z"
with red stitching around it.
Right?
And either way, even if
she was inspired by my sketch ‐‐
which she clearly was ‐‐
I'm sure she just hasn't
gotten around
to singing my praises yet.
Oh, here comes the boss.
Get ready for those vocals.
Cool design,
right?
So, so cool,
Right.
You know what, Zoey?
I should really
be thanking you.
Here it comes.
You, Kaylon, Luther,
Turquoise, Iverson ‐‐
it really is
a team effort around here.
Mm‐hmm.
And it's been so nice
to have an intern
that just fits into
our family so seamlessly.
Mm‐hmm.
You know
what I'm gonna do?
For an afternoon treat
for everyone,
I'm gonna get
one of those fancy ‐‐
you know those coffee carts
that set up in the parking lot?
Celebratory matcha
for everyone.
Wha‐‐
Cool idea, right?
So cool.
Yeah.
You set that up for me?
S‐Seamlessly.
I knew you would.
Thanks, Zoey.
♪
Well, she did sing my praises.
It just wasn't a full song.
More of like, um, an interlude.
Or a bridge, even.
♪
Okay, so, can anyone tell me
why Malcolm X
decided to visit
the city of Mecca in 1964?
Anybody?
Anyone can answer.
No? Okay.
Hey, hey, hey, hey,
that is okay.
That is why they hired me.
Let me drop some knowledge
on you real quick.
So, after being silenced
for 90 days ‐‐
90 days ‐‐ by Elijah Muhammad,
Malcolm X decided to go to Mecca
to further his what?
Further his learning of the ‐‐
of the, uh, Muslim faith.
Excuse me, young lady.
Yes, with the chunky braids.
Yes, you, my dear.
What is it that's on your phone
that's more interesting
than Malcolm
and his pilgrimage to Mecca?
Uh, I don't think
you want to know.
Oh, no, I definitely ‐‐
I definitely want to know.
How about you guys?
Don't you wanna know?
I think
we all wanna know.
I just started an Instagram
account for your sweater vest.
[ Laughter ]
Aaron:
It's funny, is it?
So, just to get this straight,
you think that, uh,
creating an IG account
for an extremely tasteful ‐‐
dare I say dapper ‐‐
cashmere blended sweater vest ‐‐
you thought that
that was more important
than learning about the Hajj.
I personally think
it's more interesting
and definitely less distracting
than that vest.
Okay, alright.
Um, do we all feel this way?
Because if my sweater vest
is distracting you
and compromising the lesson,
how about I just take it off
and I teach in a T‐shirt?
How about that, alright?
Let's focus up.
I mean, sure.
[ Laughs ]
You just created another
IG account for my T‐shirt?
She didn't,
but I did.
[ Laughter ]
Alright, how about this?
Maybe this will help
you guys focus.
[ Laughter ]
Bro, you are on one.
No, no, no.
What I'm on, young man,
is academia.
[ Camera shutters clicking ]
Do you understand me?
I'm a proud Black king
trying to lead
his very first day in class
and teach you right from wrong.
♪
I've made a terrible mistake.
Okay, so, I get how Esme
parroting my words
for some story is a bit murky,
but this whole ‐‐
this whole design thing ‐‐
Like, this?
This feels like
a direct rip‐off, right?
Oh, no question.
Yeah,
it's a 100% rip‐off.
[ Inhales deeply ]
You gotta confront her.
No, she doesn't.
Look, Zoey, stolen or not,
you need this internship.
I know.
We're almost halfway
through senior year.
Mm‐hmm.
Confronting your boss now
could jeopardize you graduating.
I know, I kno‐‐
So, what do I do?
You do what Luca said.
You call the woman out
for stealing your shit.
All facts.
Okay, wait,
I am confused.
Don't people like Esme
hire lower‐level designers
who create for them
all the time?
Yeah, but those are employees
that are on her payroll.
This chick stole an idea
from her unpaid intern.
Mm‐hmm.
Okay, well, I'm just saying
that Zoey has nothing to gain
and everything to lose
by calling her out.
I know,
and I do not want
to do anything
to jeopardize graduating.
But I don't want to be
blatantly disregarded.
I just ‐‐
I honestly don't know
if this was malicious
or even intentional.
Whatever it is ‐‐
whether she smiles in your face
or smacks it ‐‐
your boss stole your idea.
Yeah, and, also, if she did this
so easily to you,
then she's definitely
done it before,
and she's probably
going to do it again.
So, if you're not gonna speak up
for yourself,
at least
think of others.
Again, all facts.
You're right.
[ Sighs ] You're right.
I need to speak up for myself
and for others ‐‐
and, really, to let those
punk‐ass bullies know
that they cannot mess
with the beautiful
high‐cheekboned little guys.
No,
not in my house.
Mnh‐mnh.
That's the spirit!
Or about as close to the spirit
as she can get.
Yeah.
♪ I play for keeps,
and you know I came to win ♪
While I still wasn't
totally sure
that Esme had intentionally
stolen my idea,
I had to admit that
it didn't look good,
and I knew I needed to channel
my newfound confidence
to get to the bottom of it.
♪ You know I came to win ♪
♪ Play for keeps,
and you know I came to win ♪
Do you have a minute?
♪ Yeah, yeah,
you know I came to win ♪
So, like,
I really left here wondering,
how do you combine
your love of track
with your passion
for street dancing?
And I‐I actually
got into Maryland,
but I had to make
the really tough decision
and say goodbye to all that
and come to Cal U.
[ Sighs ]
Alright, well,
we've unpacked a lot
in the past couple weeks,
and good news ‐‐
in my opinion,
you seem to be
in a much better place.
So...
I think you're good
to go back to the team.
Wait...
Wait, what?
As much as I was captivated
by your story
about being a rebellious dancer
struggling to fit in
at a prestigious
arts school,
I'm afraid that
it's strangely familiar
to the plot of
"Step Up 2: The Streets."
So, unless there's
any more fiction
you'd like to delight me with,
I think we're done.
Okay.
Please...
Please just listen.
And I promise,
this isn't fiction.
I really don't want to go
back to track.
But why not?
You dedicated your entire life
to it, Jazz.
What's changed?
[ Sighs ]
I don't know.
Everything.
M‐My sister is gone.
I'm not good enough
to get into the Olympics.
I let go of my whole
relationship for all of this,
a‐and now I'm a senior,
and I don't know ‐‐
I don't know.
I don't.
Well, you think maybe
that's some of the stuff
we should be discussing?
[ Sighs ] Sure.
Okay.
Alright, let's...
Let's start over.
Why don't you tell me about
not feeling good enough?
♪
[ Sighs ]
Come on, Charlie.
You know better than anyone.
It takes one kid,
right?
One kid to drag the other kids
into a cycle of disrespect,
and that's what I was trying
to prevent from happening.
But, you know, I got caught up
in the moment. I ‐‐
It's just, it's crucial to me
that these kids understand
the important facts
about our culture.
My mistakes, they ‐‐
they stem from my passion.
You've seen the movies ‐‐
"Stand and Deliver,"
"Dangerous Minds,"
"Lean on Me."
You know?
[ Sighs ]
If you don't stop the descent,
they'll eat you alive.
Look, I get it.
And my preferred method
of teaching is also shirtless ‐‐
pantsless,
if possible.
Although, there might be a way
to get around the whole
"mandatory pants" law
with some chaps.
You don't
have to do that.
But, look,
if you go down that route,
don't even think about
facing the blackboard,
or you are done.
I don't think
I want to teach shirtless
or pantless,
um, at all.
I just want these kids
to absorb
the message, you know?
Well, unfortunately,
we got a complaint.
Damn it.
I'm getting fired,
aren't I?
Now, now,
keep your pants on.
Fortunately for you,
I found a opportunity
that would allow you to lecture
instead of grading papers ‐‐
and, luckily, this position
has a high turnover rate.
That's never
a good sign.
It's a place
for rebels ‐‐
or, as I so dare say,
iconoclasts.
Or, as I like to say,
"icons with class."
Like me and you,
who meet
at the witching hour.
You might remember.
We met there.
Wait, are you assigning me
to teach the midnight class?
That's correct.
Okay.
Now, to be clear,
this punishment is not about
body shaming you ‐‐
at all.
I saw the photos.
You saw my ‐‐
Okay.
Your body's bangin'.
Right.
Hope you don't feel offended,
'cause I could get fired.
Little uncomfortable,
but ‐‐
Only saw it
for five seconds.
That's a little
too long.
Little too long?
Two, three, four, five.
That's not too bad.
Five.
That's entirely too long.
♪
I couldn't do it.
I could not confront Esme.
What happened?
Well...
I went in all gung‐ho
to confront her...
Hey,
do you have a moment?
Yeah.
Come on in.
I'm just finishing up
this e‐mail.
♪
Okay.
What's up?
Um...
well, I have your
six packs of sweetener,
stir sticks,
madeleines.
I hate to admit,
I ate your cake pop.
Okay?
Okay.
Was there
anything else?
Hey, I get it.
You got cold feet.
You needed to protect
your internship.
That's not quite it.
It's more like ‐‐
I just ‐‐ I had to protect her.
Okay, look, I saw this photo
on Esme's wall with her
and just a bunch of
White designers,
and it dawned on me
how many obstacles
she's had to overcome
to make it in the fashion world.
And then the one
she'll undoubtedly encounter
as a brown woman
in this world, period?
I couldn't be another one
of those obstacles.
Okay?
I‐I just can't bring myself to
call out another woman of color.
So...
I just
want to let it go.
You know that I think
you did the right thing.
Yeah.
And you did it
for even better reasons
than I would have
thought of.
Really, I was just pushing
for self‐preservation,
so congrats.
Hey, if I'm not gonna stand up
for the beautiful,
high‐cheekbone little guys,
who will?
[ Chuckles ]
Proud of you.
♪
♪ I'm getting tired
of these solo nights ♪
So, while the incident
with Esme
may have dimmed my shine
a little,
it was also a boost
to my confidence
that someone like her took
my design and made it her own.
And honestly,
I was okay with that.
In fact, I felt really good
about it
because I knew
setting aside my ego
allowed the culture
to shine a little brighter.
♪
But unfortunately,
Luca saw things differently.
♪
♪ Oh ♪
Good evening.
I'm Aaron Jackson,
and I'd like to thank you all
for taking this class.
Um, looking around,
I can see that this is still
the most eclectic, diverse group
of students Cal U has to offer.
I mean, I can see we still have
our working parents
who spend their nights
doing everything they wish
they could do during the day.
One love.
And to my independent
sex contractor in the front ‐‐
not my personal independent
sex contractor,
she is one ‐‐
her name's Little Dragon.
She's feisty. Leg off the desk.
We talked about this. Thank you.
I'm not entirely clear on why
you still have time to be here,
but more power to you.
And to all our freshmen, okay?
All our freshmen that are here
due to late registration...
♪
...you don't know it yet,
but this class
will change your life.
I hope.